## Q3

### a

Treating each igloo as a vertex and a road that connects any igloo homes as an edge, the problem can be generalized into a finding the number of vertices in strongly connected components of the graph, where the SCC has to have more than one vertex. To do so, we perform Kosaraju's algorithm on the graph, and then for each SCC that has more than 1 vertex, add the number of vertex to the total count.

Runtime: O(|V| + |E|). Running Kosaraju's algorithm takes O(|V| + |E|), the analyzing pass won't analyze more than |V| connected components so the runtime is still O(|V| + |E|).

### b

Let each pokemon be a vertex on a DAC, with the root being Mew and the direction of edge indicating the parent-child relationship between 2.

Precomputation:
Run DFS for directed graphs and record all pre and post timestamps, store them in a map for O(1) lookup:
```cpp
unordered_map<Vertex, pair<int, int>> vertex_dfs_timestamps;
```

Algorithm:
Let the vertices queried by u, v. Query pre and post of u,v from the map.
- if pre[u] < pre[v] < post[v] < post[u], u is the ancestor and v is the descendent, u and v can be swapped by symmetry; this gives us either return (1) or (2)
- if pre[v] < post[v] < pre[u]  < post[u], u and v share a common ancestor but aren't descendent from other; same as the previous u and v and be swapped by symmetry. This gives us return (3)


Runtime:
DFS: O(p), p being the number of pokemons.
Query: O(1), map lookup and numerical comparison are constant-time.

### c

Construct a graph that, for for each box, have its out edge pointing to boxes returned by the Falexa algorithm:
```python
def falexa_query(x:Box) -> list[Box]:
    ...

adj_list:dict[Box, list[Box]] = dict()

for box in all_boxes:
    adj_list[box] = falexa_query(box)
```
Constructing the graph takes O(n) time, assuming `falexa_query` takes O(1).

Considering the negative edge weights, we run Bellman-Ford algorithm to find the single-source shortest paths in the constructed graph, from the smallest box `x` to the largest box.

Upon acquiring the path, we make a copy of the path and start popping vertices from it in reverse; each time we pop a vertex, get the new net weight after popping and the # of popped vertices. If the new net weight is less than the maximum net weight(initailized to be the net weight of the original path), we update the # of popped vertices. Finally we pop the exact number of vertices in reverse in the original path, which will give us the least-costing path.

Runtime: O(|E||V|), O(|E|) from constructing the graph which is overwritten by the O(|E||V|) Bellman-Ford algorithm.