## Q4

The following are to be prooved to show the iff condition: 
1. G is semiconnected DAG => directed path that visits all vertices of G exists
2. directed path that visits all vertices of G exists => G is semiconnected DAG

### To show (1)
Consider an arbitrary semiconnected DAG, `g`. Now consider the following algorithm to be applied to any 2 arbitrary nodes(vertices) in `g`:
```python
def find_origin_node(node1:Node, node2:Node) -> Node:
    """
    assuming a path exists from one node to another,
    return the node that is the origin of the path.
    """
    # performs a directed graph variation of DFS on both nodes to look for a path from one to the other, returns the origin node on the found path. 
```
The function is guaranteed to find the origin node in the path, given the semiconnected DAG invariant that 2 nodes are connected through a path one way or the other. 

It's impossible for both nodes to be the origin node, as this breaks the DAG invariant by creating a circle(one node can go to the other from one path and go back from another path).

Now consider the following algorithm:
```python
def find_path_root(g:Graph):
    ret:Node = g.nodes.pop()
    while not g.nodes.empty():
        node = g.nodes.pop()
        ret = find_origin_node(ret, node)
    return ret
```

The function is guaranteed to find a node that is capable of visiting all other nodes in `g` in one path.

The following inductive proof shows it's true:

- Base Case:  
In the 1st loop, `ret` node is capable of reaching the other popped node, through a single edge, as `find_origin_node()` is verified above.
- Inductive Assumption:  
Assuming that at the beginning of every `while` iteration, `ret` is a node capable of reaching all other popped nodes through a unique path.
- Inductive Step:  
After calling `find_origin_node(ret, node)`:  
    - if the function returns the new popped `node`, `node` is capable of reaching `ret` in one path, and hence all previously popped nodes `ret` is capable of reaching in one path.
    - if the function returns the original  `ret`, `ret` if capable of reaching the `node` of the iteration through some path. To show that `ret` is a part of the unique path we're constructing(instead of some random path), consider the following 2 scenarios:
    1. `node` is already a part of the path that `ret` uses to reach all previous nodes. In this case, nothing needs to be proven.
    2. `node` does not belong to the existing path that traverses popped nodes. In this case, we can "graft" the node into the existing unique path using the following algorithm:
    ```python
    path:list[Node] # let this be the unique path capable of reaching all popped nodes so far, the first node being `ret`. This information can be obtained by doing brute-force DFS on all popped nodes, or cache the information as we iterate. This path is guaranteed to exist per inductive assumption.
    graft_index:i = len(current_path)
    for i in range(len(current_path))
        if find_origin_node(current_path[i], node) == node:
            graft_index = i
            break
    path.insert(graft_index, node)
    ```
    The intuition is to take a "detour" into `node` through some path, knowing that `node` can go back to the current path right after the detour. The detour can begin as early as at the root(if the 2nd vertex in the path can be reached from `node`). If `find_origin_node` always returns `current_path[i]` for all iterations, we simply go to the last vertex of the current path, and put `node` after the last vertex; the last vertex in the path can go to `node` as promised by `find_origin_node`, without going back. 
    
    Either way, the algorithm produces a modified path that traverses all popped nodes. Hence `node` belongs to the unique path.


Therefore, each call to `find_origin_node` returns a node capable of visiting all other popped nodes through one path. After popping all nodes from the list, we get the root node from which we are guaranteed to have a unique path that travels through the entire graph.

### To show (2)
Let `g` be a graph that has a directed path that visits all vertices of a graph, `path`.

Pick 2 arbitrary edges from `g`: `i` and `j`. `i` and `j` must be a part of the directed path. If `i` occurs before `j`, there is a path from `i` to `j` which is `path[indexof(i):indexof(j)]` and if the inverse, `j` to `i` which is `path[indexof(j):indexof(i)]`. Hence the condition that the graph is a semi-connected DAG.