## Q2

### Algorithm

1. Run a modified version of Kruskal's algorithm that does the following in addition to generating a MST:
    1. Instead of stopping on complete tree generation, iterate over all edges.
    2. For every edge that's not added to the MST set, record the edge's weight in a map hashed with the 2 vertices the edge connect, let the map be `M`, and let the query operation of a potential edge's weight be `M[(v1, v2)]` which returns the edge's weight or null if no edge connects the 2 vertices.
    
2. Starting from an arbitrary vertex in the MST, let the vertex be the in the set `LHS` and everything in the MST that's not the vertex be the set `RHS`, also initialize a map `N` that maps vertex pairs to weights of the edges that connect them. Each iteration we take one vertex from `RHS` that's connected to `LHS` to join `LHS`, and update `N` to remove and include new weights of edges that are capable of connecting the 2 component, by looking up in `M`. At the end of each iteration, record the maximum number of edge weights in `N` which is a number, and the associated connected components. Keep doing this until `RHS` is empty.

3. The connected component with the overall minimum number of edge weight is the result of the cut we want to do, and the edges cut are stored in `N` when we reach that state in the loop.

### Proof
The loop goes through all possibilities of connected components, and for each possibility we calculate the largest edge that connects 2 components(hence the largest edge that needs to be cut). Comparing all the recorded max edge weight at the end, and the minimum edge weight wins.

### Runtime

Kruskal's: O(|E|log|V|) + Iterating over all vertices once O(|V|) + adding each edge to the set during the iteration O(|E|)