## Q2

### Algorithm

Let the arrays be `a1` and `a2`
1. if `k` == 1, return the min of `a1[0]` and `a2[0]`, as we're looking for the 1st element
2. otherwise, we compare the median number of 2 arrays, and we cut them in 4 half arrays. Take the right half of the array with a smaller median, and the left half of the array with the bigger median. The k value we're looking for is guaranteed to be in between the 2 halves.
3. subtract k by the length of one of the smaller array(or in our case where each array is of length k, halve the k value)
4. pass the new k value and the new array.
5. recurse.

### Proof

To find the kth smallest value we should be looking for a value in the 2 lists that's only bigger than (k-1) values on the 2 lists. Whenever we half the lists and recurse, we're eliminating the possibility of the first half of the smaller list to have the correct value. 

However the first half of the smaller list also contributes to the values that are smaller than k, so we subtract k with that value. We keep doing this until k is 1, which means that we don't need to shrink the smaller list anymore to find the fitting value, as k is the value at the very beginning of the 2 lists.

We can safely halve the list with a bigger median, as the RHS of the median does not contribute to any values smaller than the k'th smallest value.

### Runtime
Each time the lists shrinks by a factor of 2, so it's an O(logK) solution.

### Code

```python

def solution_recursive(arr1:list[int], arr2:list[int], k:int) -> int:
    if k == 1:
        return min(arr1[0] if arr1 else float('inf'), arr2[0] if arr2 else float('inf'))
    if not arr1:
        return arr2[k-1]
    if not arr2:
        return arr1[k-1]
    arr1_mid_point = len(arr1) // 2
    arr2_mid_point = len(arr2) // 2
    arr1_median:int = arr1[arr1_mid_point]
    arr2_median:int = arr2[arr2_mid_point]
    if arr1_median < arr2_median:
        return solution_recursive(arr1[arr1_mid_point+1:], arr2[:arr2_mid_point], k - (arr1_mid_point + 1))
    else:
        return solution_recursive(arr2[arr2_mid_point+1:], arr1[:arr1_mid_point], k - (arr2_mid_point + 1))


```